Here are the files i used to setup (both on arduino and Atmel Studio) an asynchronous ADC.
It relies on the peripheral ADC of the µcontrollers and instead of having to wait for a conversion to complete, we rely on buffers which hold
conversion requests. Those requests are sent by a fake classe named "Sensor" and all the necessary attributes to make this schematic work.
The Adc class receives the conversion requests and stores them in a list whom the size is defined by a #define statement.
The Adc will init conversion as soon as the first request is passed, and each time a conversion is ready, an Interrupt Service Routine (aka ISR)
is triggered and handled by the CPU.
If the pending requests list is full, all future requests will be discarded until the number of requests decreases below a given latch value.
Also, each one of the sensors is configured to have its own request count limitation (it cannot send more than X requests). It automatically 
discards all new incoming requests itself. 
By default, i've put this limit to 3 (arbitrary value). Note that by modifying this parameter individually, you can directly influence
the priority between sensors (some sensors may require more attention, and then more frequent requests, than others).

Once a conversion is ready, the result is pushed back to its owner (the Sensor which has sent the request) thanks to its adress stored in the
request list.

e.g:

Adress(Sensor mysensor1) = 0x8fea
Adress(Sensor mysensor2) = 0x8feb

The pending request list will look like this:
0 0x8fea (-> adress of mysensor1)
1 0x8fea (-> again, adress of mysensor1)
2 0xfeb  (-> adress of mysensor2)
3 0x000  (-> NULL pointer)
4 0x000  (-> NULL pointer)

Adc.total_pending_count = 3

Once the conversion completes, the Adc remembers (thanks to an iterator) which sensor sent the request. Then it is pretty easy for the Adc to
push back data inside the right Sensor.

e.g.
-> 0 0x8fea (-> adress of mysensor1)        // Pointed by the processing iterator (which allows the adc to recall where it is processing data)
   1 0x8fea (-> again, adress of mysensor1)
   2 0xfeb  (-> adress of mysensor2)
   
   Then it pushes the data back to mysensor1 thanks to this adress.
   
   
   Hope you'll find it usefull.
   I'll post the arduino version (.ino) and the Atmel Studio version (main.cpp)
